osp/demo/README.md, before:

# Presentation API Demo

This directory contains a demo of a Presentation API controller and receiver.
The demo supports flinging a URL to start a presentation and stopping the
presentation.

## Command line options

The same executable is run for the controller and receiver; only the command
line options affect the behavior.  The command line options are:

``` bash
    $ osp_demo [-v] [friendly_name]
```

 - `-v` enables verbose logging.
 - Specifying `friendly_name` puts the demo in receiver mode and sets its name
   to `friendly_name`.  Currently, `friendly_name` won't appear in any of the
   controller-side output related to this screen though.  If no friendly name is
   given, the demo runs as a controller.

## Log output

Because the demo acts like a shell and accepts commands on `stdin`, the logging
output is redirected to a separate file so it doesn't flood the same display.
You have to create these files on your machine before running the demo.  For the
controller, this file should be named `_cntl_fifo` and for the receiver, it
should be named `_recv_fifo`.  The simplest way to do this is so you can see the
output while the demo is running is to make these named pipes like so:

``` bash
    $ mkfifo _cntl_fifo _recv_fifo
```

Then `cat` them in separate terminals while the demo is running.

## Listener commands

 - `avail <url>`: Begin listening for receivers that support the presentation of
   `url`.
 - `start <url> <instance_id>`: Start a presentation of `url` on the receiver
   specified by the ID `instance_id`.  `instance_id` will be printed in the output
   log once `avail` has been run.  The demo only supports starting one
   presentation at a time.
 - `msg <string>`: Sends a string message on the open presentation connection.
 - `close`: Close the open presentation connection without terminating the
   presentation.
 - `reconnect`: Reconnect the previously-connected presentation connection.
   This allows using the `msg` command again.
 - `term`: Terminate the previously started presentation.

## Publisher commands

 - `avail`: Toggle whether the receiver is publishing itself as an available
   screen.  The receiver starts in the publishing state.
 - `close`: Close the open presentation connection without terminating the
   presentation.
 - `msg <string>`: Sends a string message on the open presentation connection.
 - `term`: Terminate the running presentation.

Commit message:

[OpenScreen] Make Controller manage ConnectRequest
Currently, UrlAvailabilityRequester and MessageGroupStreams have their
own ConnectRequset. It is complicated and not easy to integrate with
authentication in the future. This CL makes Controller manage
ConnectRequest uniformly.

As the result of changes in the process of establishing a connection,
this CL also deletes url_availability_requester_unittest.cc and
moves useful tests to presentation_controller_unittest.cc.

Bug: 281741443
Change-Id: I6c2fea2505c998bd41c0bff85dfdfb08c3a80e92
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/openscreen/+/5956190
Commit-Queue: Wei4 Wang <wei4.wang@intel.com>
Reviewed-by: Mark Foltz <mfoltz@chromium.org>

osp/demo/README.md, after:

# Presentation API Demo

This directory contains a demo of a Presentation API controller and receiver.
The demo supports flinging a URL to start a presentation and stopping the
presentation.

## Command line options

The same executable is run for the controller and receiver; only the command
line options affect the behavior.  The command line options are:

``` bash
    $ osp_demo [-v] [friendly_name]
```

 - `-v` enables verbose logging.
 - Specifying `friendly_name` puts the demo in receiver mode and sets its name
   to `friendly_name`.  If no friendly name is given, the demo runs as a controller.

## Log output

Because the demo acts like a shell and accepts commands on `stdin`, the logging
output is redirected to a separate file so it doesn't flood the same display.
You have to create these files on your machine before running the demo.  For the
controller, this file should be named `_cntl_fifo` and for the receiver, it
should be named `_recv_fifo`.  The simplest way to do this is so you can see the
output while the demo is running is to make these named pipes like so:

``` bash
    $ mkfifo _cntl_fifo _recv_fifo
```

Then `cat` them in separate terminals while the demo is running.

## Listener commands

 - `connect <instance_name>`: Build a connection to receiver named `instance_name`.
   All connectable receivers are discovered by discovery module and printed in the
   output log.
 - `avail <url>`: Begin listening for all connected receivers that support the
   presentation of `url`.
 - `start <url> <instance_name>`: Start a presentation of `url` on the receiver
   specified by the `instance_name`.  `instance_name` will be printed in the output
   log once `avail` has been run.  The demo only supports starting one
   presentation at a time.
 - `msg <string>`: Sends a string message on the open presentation connection.
 - `close`: Close the open presentation connection without terminating the
   presentation.
 - `reconnect`: Reconnect the previously-connected presentation connection.
   This allows using the `msg` command again.
 - `term`: Terminate the previously started presentation.

## Publisher commands

 - `avail`: Toggle whether the receiver is publishing itself as an available
   screen.  The receiver starts in the publishing state.
 - `close`: Close the open presentation connection without terminating the
   presentation.
 - `msg <string>`: Sends a string message on the open presentation connection.
 - `term`: Terminate the running presentation.
