cast/README.md, before:

# libcast

libcast is an open source implementation of the Cast protocol supporting Cast
applications and streaming to Cast-compatible devices.

## Using the standalone implementations

To run the standalone sender and receivers together, first you need to install
the following dependencies: FFMPEG, LibVPX, LibOpus, LibSDL2, as well as their
headers (frequently in a separate -dev package). From here, you just need a
video to use with the cast_sender, as the cast_receiver can generate a
self-signed certificate and private key for each session. You can also generate
your own RSA private key and either create or have the receiver automatically
create a self signed certificate with that key. If the receiver generates a root
certificate, it will print out the location of that certificate to stdout.

Note that we assume that the private key is a PEM-encoded RSA private key,
and the certificate is X509 PEM-encoded. The certificate must also have
the CA bit set in the basic constraints. The easiest way to test with a key
and certificate is to use ones generated by the cast_receiver standalone
application.

## Developer certificate generation and use

The easiest way to generate a private key and certificate is to just run
the cast_receiver with `-g`, and both should be written out to files:

```
  $ /path/to/out/Default/cast_receiver -g
    [INFO:../../cast/receiver/channel/static_credentials.cc(161):T0] Generated new private key for session: ./generated_root_cast_receiver.key
    [INFO:../../cast/receiver/channel/static_credentials.cc(169):T0] Generated new root certificate for session: ./generated_root_cast_receiver.crt
```

These generated credentials can be passed in to start a session, e.g.
```
./out/Default/cast_receiver -d generated_root_cast_receiver.crt -p generated_root_cast_receiver.key lo0 -x
```

And then passed to the cast sender to connect and start a streaming session:
```
  $ ./out/Default/cast_sender -d generated_root_cast_receiver.crt ~/video-1080-mp4.mp4
```

When running on Mac OS X, also pass the `-x` flag to the cast receiver to
disable DNS-SD/mDNS, since Open Screen does not currently integrate with
Bonjour.

When connecting to a receiver that's not running on the loopback interface
(typically `lo` or `lo0`), pass the `-r <receiver IP endpoint>` flag to the
`cast_sender` binary.

Commit message:

Enable AV1 codec in standalone sender and receiver
This patch adds support for AV1 using libaom. It also adds
documentation for compiling libaom from source, since the version
provided by the Linux package manager is too slow for realistic use.

Change-Id: Icd0bb3001a1107087749de9e24a9781b3b8b04d4
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/openscreen/+/3066030
Commit-Queue: Jordan Bayles <jophba@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Jordan Bayles <jophba@chromium.org>

cast/README.md, after:

# libcast

libcast is an open source implementation of the Cast protocol supporting Cast
applications and streaming to Cast-compatible devices.

## Using the standalone implementations

To run the standalone sender and receivers together, first you need to install
the following dependencies: FFMPEG, LibVPX, LibOpus, LibSDL2, LibAOM as well as
their headers (frequently in a separate -dev package). Currently, it is advised
that most Linux users compile LibAOM from source, using the instructions at
https://aomedia.googlesource.com/aom/. Older versions found in many package
management systems have blocking performance issues, causing AV1 encoding to be
completely unusable. From here, you just need a video to use with the
cast_sender, as the cast_receiver can generate a self-signed certificate and
private key for each session. You can also generate your own RSA private key and
either create or have the receiver automatically create a self signed
certificate with that key. If the receiver generates a root certificate, it will
print out the location of that certificate to stdout.

Note that we assume that the private key is a PEM-encoded RSA private key,
and the certificate is X509 PEM-encoded. The certificate must also have
the CA bit set in the basic constraints. The easiest way to test with a key
and certificate is to use ones generated by the cast_receiver standalone
application.

## Developer certificate generation and use

The easiest way to generate a private key and certificate is to just run
the cast_receiver with `-g`, and both should be written out to files:

```
  $ /path/to/out/Default/cast_receiver -g
    [INFO:../../cast/receiver/channel/static_credentials.cc(161):T0] Generated new private key for session: ./generated_root_cast_receiver.key
    [INFO:../../cast/receiver/channel/static_credentials.cc(169):T0] Generated new root certificate for session: ./generated_root_cast_receiver.crt
```

These generated credentials can be passed in to start a session, e.g.
```
./out/Default/cast_receiver -d generated_root_cast_receiver.crt -p generated_root_cast_receiver.key lo0 -x
```

And then passed to the cast sender to connect and start a streaming session:
```
  $ ./out/Default/cast_sender -d generated_root_cast_receiver.crt ~/video-1080-mp4.mp4
```

When running on Mac OS X, also pass the `-x` flag to the cast receiver to
disable DNS-SD/mDNS, since Open Screen does not currently integrate with
Bonjour.

When connecting to a receiver that's not running on the loopback interface
(typically `lo` or `lo0`), pass the `-r <receiver IP endpoint>` flag to the
`cast_sender` binary.
